the library of babel spanish la biblioteca de babel is a short story by argentine
 author and librarian jorge luis borges , conceiving of a universe in the form o
f a vast library containing all possible page books of a certain format and char
acter set.the story was originally published in spanish in borges collection of 
stories el jardn de senderos que se bifurcan the garden of forking paths. that e
ntire book was, in turn, included within his muchreprinted ficciones . two engli
shlanguage translations appeared approximately simultaneously in , one by james 
e. irby in a diverse collection of borgess works titled labyrinths and the other
 by anthony kerrigan as part of a collaborative translation of the entirety of f
icciones. plot borges narrator describes how his universe consists of an enormou
s expanse of adjacent hexagonal rooms. in each room, there is an opening in the 
floor to the hexagons above and below, four walls of bookshelves, and two juncti
ons between hexagons each containing a latrine, a sleeping closet, and a stairwe
ll. though the order and content of the books are random and apparently complete
ly meaningless, the inhabitants believe that the books contain every possible or
dering of just basic characters letters, the period, the comma, and space. thoug
h the vast majority of the books in this universe are pure gibberish, the laws o
f probability dictate that the library also must contain, somewhere, every coher
ent book ever written, or that might ever be written, and every possible permuta
tion or slightly erroneous version of every one of those books. the narrator not
es that the library must contain all useful information, including predictions o
f the future, biographies of any person, and translations of every book in all l
anguages. conversely, for many of the texts, some language could be devised that
 would make it readable with any of a vast number of different contents.despite 
these theories, all books are functionally totally useless to the reader, as any
 correct, legible text that can exist occurs due to pure chance and must exist a
longside countless completely incorrect writings. this leads to many superstitio
ns, cults, and heresies within the wider organized religion of the library the p
urifiers arbitrarily destroy books they deem nonsense as they scour through the 
library seeking the crimson hexagon and its illustrated, magical books. others b
elieve that since all books exist in the library, somewhere one of the books mus
t be a perfect index of the librarys contents some even believe that a messianic
 figure known as the man of the book has read it, and they travel through the li
brary seeking him. the narrator notes the population of the library has been gra
vely decimated by centuries of religious conflict and disease, but maintains his
 faith in the beauty and organization of the library as undeniable proof of a go
d or other demiurge, reaffirming his own attempts to find some ultimate meaning 
to the library and humanitys existence within it. themes the story repeats the t
heme of borges essay the total library la biblioteca total, which in turn acknow
ledges the earlier development of this theme by kurd lasswitz in his story the 